


			     Introduction


          Italy,from the 13th to the early 17th centuries, produced

some of the most exciting developments in the history of mankind. We

call this period the Renaissance meaning "REBIRTH". It describes the

rediscovery of the knowledge which the great thinkers of Ancient
                             1
Greece and Rome had possesed.  


          Despite the wealth of Venice and the power of Rome, to think

of Renaissance Italy is to think first and foremost of Florence the

city that led all others in both daring and achievement. From the

early 14th century to the mid 16th century no other city in Europe
                                                        2
kept such a steady preassure of intellectual attainment. 


          Most of the great names of the Italian Renaissance were

Florentines. Not only in arts but also in philosophy, in the writing

of history, in politics, and in banking, commerace, and finance. Even 

what Florence did not originate, it refined. Many of the great non-

Florentine artists came and had their styles crucially changed 
      3
there.


          In my paper I will look at Florence during this period and

the conditions which led to new interests in the old learning. I

will also examine how scholars, artists, and scientists used this

knowledge as a foundation for new ideas of their own. 


		        The Rise of the Medici


          In Europe during the Middle Ages, the great works of Greece

and Rome had been mostly, though not entirely, forgotten. During

this medieval period artist and thoughtful writers had been more

interested in the Bible and religious subjects than in other areas

of knowledge. The Catholic church had a strong hold on everyone's
     4,5
life.  


          Italy had suffered from the barbarian invasions of the

Goths, Franks, Persians, and Huns. It faced war, plague, and famine.

Rome had been sacked in 410 A.D. by the Vesigoths. "GOTHIC" art

had invaded the clasical world. It was coarse, crude, and gloomy.

The Italians felt the classical world had died with Rome during this
     6,7,8
time.  

	
        But this classical spirit was to make a triumphant resurrec-

tion.This rebirth or Renaissance, as it would come to be known as, 
                                                            9
began in Northern Italy and made its first home in Florence. 


         In the 14th century, Florence was the leading commercial and

financial center of Europe and one of its wealthiest. This was due

in part to its favorable position for trading with the east and also

to the use of more advanced business techniques. Another factor in

their economic development was the urbanization of power. The feudal

lords of the Italian countryside had been forced to become citizens

of the nearest town. By doing so they could share its prosperity 
                                                       10,11,12,13
and retain some political influence over its government. 
          

        Most of the wealth of Florence was controlled by its merchant 

families.These families considered themselves more important than

the old nobel families of Florence. They controlled the important

guilds and only guildsmen had the privilege of holding political

office.  Their government was based on a system of election by lot,

but the ruling families controlled the elections very carefully. In

theory all the people of Florence had some say in its government but

it could not truly be considered democratic. However, they shrank

from the idea of Florence being ruled by tyrants like so many of the
                                                              14,15,16
other Italian states had.They were proud of being a true republic.


         Even so, after 1534 the Florentines came to accept a gov-

ernment controlled by one family -The Medici- that was as powerful

and as permanent as any of the dynasties established by the tyrants
    
elsewhere. Florence needed a secure and self-confident ruler at this

time. From 1381 to 1434 the Albizzi family and its arisctocratic 

followers had been able to control the Signoria, or Muicipal Council.

During this time the Medici family was establishing popularity with 
 
the people by espousing the cause of the rebel poor.In 1427 Giovanni 

di Bicci de' Medici further endeared the family to the people by

supporting an annual income tax, even though he himself would suffer 

heavily from it because of his wealth; the rich vowed vengence on the 
       17,18,19
Medici.


        In 1428 Giovanni di Bicci died bequeathing to his son Cosimo 

a good name and the largest fortune in the region. Cosimo was already 

thirty-nine years old and fully fit to carry on the enterprisis of

the firm.These including banking, as well as farming ,manufacturing,
         20
and trade.


        Cosimo directed all of this with quiet skill and still had

time for politics. He was also very generous, which contributed to his

popularity. Being very envyous of Cosimo,Rinaldo delgi Albizzi laun-

ched an attack on him and had Cosimo sent into exile. But he had so

many followers and such great influence that he was able to return 
                                         21,22,23
to Florence and cause his enemies to flee.


        Once he was in power Cosimo de' Medici determined to hold on

to it. He made important changes in the voting system, and even though

there were movements of opposition and protest, the Medici family held

control of the republic for sixty years. Cosimo's grandson,the great 

Lorenzo ruled Florence like a prince of the Renaissance. Cosimo's

foreign policy was dedicated to the organization of peace. He knew
                                                
that war or even the threat of it stiffled trade.

**********
         Merchants were used as quasi-ambassadors , with other 

states, as the constitution made it impossible for an ambassador

to represent Medici. Using resident businessmen however,Medici was 

able to keep well informed of affairs which might affect trade. 

When Venice and Naples formed an alliance against Florence, Cosimo

called in so many loans made to their citizens that their governments 

were induced to make peace. He made an alliance with Milan to ensure
                   24,25, 26
a balance of power.


        This policy of balanced powers,conceived by Cosimo and

continued by Lorenzo, gave Italy four decades of peace and order 

from 1450 to 1492, during which time the cities grew rich enough to 
                        27         
finance the Renaissance.


        Cosimo cared as much for literature, scholarship, philosophy,

and art as for wealth and power. He spent a large part of his fortune

collecting classical texts. He opened his collections to teachers

and students without charge. He collected beautiful objects and was
                                28,29
a patron for writers and artists.


        The tradition of patronage was continued by Cosimo's son,

Piero, and his grandson, Lorenzo, who professed the humanist phil-

osophy.Although he was a politian first, and a scholar and writer

afterward, his thoughts were never far away from literature and

poetry. He had developed his mind through learning Greek and Latin

as well as music, and his body through riding and sports.He was 

completly at home with scholars and met with diplomats and musicians

to discuss philosophical and religous subjects.He was also a succ-
                        30
essful and original poet.


        It was during the reign of Lorenzo the Magnificent that 

Florence went through its "GOLDEN AGE". Marsilio Fecino said it was 

the age 
        which has restored to the light the liberal arts that

        had almost been destroyed: grammar,eloquence, painting,
                                       31
        architecture, sculpture, music.


        The Medici's were not the only patrons of the arts. The great

wealth of the region and the political and cultural atmosphere of

the time encouraged other rich men to become patrons for writers and

artists. Many of the most admired and best known architects, sculp-

tors, and artists produced some of the most famous works in history
                32
during this time.


                          II The Humanists


       It was during the time of the Medici that the humanists cap-

tured the mind of Italy, turned it from religion to philosophy, from

heaven to earth, and revealed the riches of pagen thought and art. 

These men received the name of `umanisti' because they called the

study of classical culture `unamitia' -the" humanities"- or human

letters. The proper study of mankind was now to be man, in all the

potential strength and beauty of his body, in all the joy and pain

of his senses and feelings, in all the frail majesty of his reason;

and in these as most abundantly and perfectly revealed in the lit-
                                                             33
erature and art of Ancient Greece and Rome. This was humanism.


        Who were those who acted as mediators between their own age

and a venerated antiquity and so influenced their culture to stimu-

lated "rebirth" of the latter? They were a crowd of the most miscel-

laneous sort but they clearly felt themselves, and it was recognized
                                                         34 
by their time that they formed, a new element in society.


        The leaders of the humanist movement in the beginning were

almost all citizens or graduates of Florence.Cosimo de' Medici did

much to promote the movement. He was a great collector of the antiqu-

ties. A large part of his fortune was spent collecting classic texts.

The most costly cargoes of his ships were in many cases manuscripts
                                    35,36
 carried from Greece or Alexandria.

              
        Niccolo de' Medici was also a great collector and when he 

ruined himself in buying ancient manuscripts, Cosimo opened for him
                                                                      37     
an unlimited credit at the Medici bank, and supported him until death.


        Also because of Cosimo's generosity another classic scholar,

Marsalio Ficino, was able to devote his life to the study of Greek 

and to translate all the works of Plato into Latin. At the villa 

which Cosimo gave him,Ficino's humanist friends would meet to dis-

cuss how they could reconcile their enthusiasm for Plato and other

philosophers of the ancient world with their Christian faith. Men

such as Bruni, Guarino, Marsuppini, Manetti, and Johannes 

Argyropolus gathered together in 1445 and established the Platonic
        38,39,40,41
Academy.


        Lorenzo de' Medici carried on Cosimo's support of the human-

ist movement. What had begun two centuries earlier with Dante and

continued later with Petrarch and Boccaccio,fourished with these 

great scholars of Florence. This revolution by now had spread through
                                                                  42,43
Italy and with the invention of printing, quickly influenced Europe.



                         Literature


        Encouraged by Lorenzo de' Medici's aid and example, Floren-

tine men of letters now wrote more and more of their works in Ital-

ian. After Petrarch's choice of Latin for his epic, Italian litera-
                     44
ture had languished.


        But while reviving Italian literature, Lorenzo carried on

zealously his grandfather's enterprise of gathering for the use of

scholars in Florence, all the classics of Greece and Rome. He sent

politian and John Lascaris to various cities in Italy and abroad to

buy manuscripts. He paid scribes to make him copies of manuscripts

that could not be purchased and allowed other collectors to send their

copyists to transcribe manuscripts in the Medicean Library. When 

Bernardo Cennini set up a printing press in Florence(1471), Lorenzo

at once recognized the revolutionary possibilites of moveable type

and he engaged scholars to collect diverse texts in order that class-

ics might be printed with the greatest accuracy possible at that 
      45
time.


        Lured by the reputation of Medici and other Florentines for

generous patronage, scholars flocked to Florence and made it the

capital of literary learning. Lorenzo restored and enlarged the old 
                                                          47
University of Piza, and the Platonic Academy at Florence.


        Among those who attended the discussions of the Platonic

Academy were Politian, Pico della Mirandola, Michelangelo, and Marsilio

Ficino. Marsilio had devoted almost all his life to translating Plato

into Latin and to studying, teaching, and writing about Platoism.

For a time he lost his religous faith; Platoism seemed superior. 

Christianity seemed to him but one of many religions that hid ele-

ments of truth behind their dogmas and symbolic rites. St. Augistines

writings, and gratitude for  recovery from a serious illness, won 

won him back to the Christian faith. At forty he became a priest,

but he remained an enthusiastic Platonist. Following his lead, 

Lorenzo and most of the humanists sought not to replace Christianity

with another faith, but to reinterpret it in terms that a philosopher

could accept. For a while the church smiled tolerantly on the enter-
       48
prise.


        One of the closest to Lorenzo at this time was Politian. He

studied Latin, Greek, Platoism, and Aristotelian philosophy.At six-

teen he began to translate Homer into Latin. Lorenzo was so impressed

with the excellence of Politian's work that he took him into his home

as tutor of his son and provided for all his needs. Politian  began 

editing ancient texts with a learning and judgment that won universal 

praise, His lectures on classic literature were attended by those in 

Europe who had heard of his fame as scholar, poet, and orator in three 

tongues. The humanists acclaimed him as their master despite his youth 

and rejoiced that the nobel language of Latin that they sought to 
                         49
restore was alive again.


        Italy had, during the time of the Medicis, rediscovered 

ancient Greece and Rome, established the essentials of classical

scholarship, and made Latin again a language of splendor and force.

But also Italy had rediscovered its own language and soul, its poetry 

was classical in spirit but "modern" in language and thought. The age 

of scholars receded, imitation gave way to creation. Italian literature

was reborn. Soon, revival of antiquity would be almost forgotten in

the exuberance of an Italian culture leading the world in letters,
                          50
and flooding it with art.


                                BIBLIOGRAPHY  


1.   Burckhardt, Jacob. The Civilization of the Renaissance in
                        ---------------------------------------
  Italy. N. Y.: Random House Inc., 1934.
 ------

2.   Bull, George. The Renaissance. N.Y.: The John Day Co. Inc., 1968
                  -----------------

3.    Durant, Will. The Renaissance. N.Y.: Simon & Schuster, 1953
                  ------------------

4.    Gail, Marzirh. Life in the Renaissance. N.Y.: Random House Inc.
                    -------------------------

5.    The Universal Illustrated Encyclopedia. 1978 ed. S.v."Goth".
      ---------------------------------------                      

6.    Hace, John. Renaissance. N.Y.: Time-Life Books, 1965
                 -------------

7.    Hearder, H. A Short History of Italy. N.Y.: the press
                 --------------------------
  syndicate of the University of Cambridge, 1963.


8.    Laven, Peter. Renaissance Italy. N.Y.: Capricorn Books,1966
                   -------------------

9.    Mac Leish Kenneth "Leonordo da Vinci: A Man for All Ages"
  
  National Geographic. September 1977: 269-329.
 ---------------------

10.   Powell, Anton. Renaissance Italy.N.Y.: Warwick Press, 1980.
                    -----------------



                                  FOOTNOTES


1.    Powell, Anton. Renaissance Italy. { N.Y.: Warwick Press, 
                    ------------------
  1980 } p.8

2.    Hale, John. Renaissance. { N.Y.: Time-Life Book, 1965 } p.75
                 -------------

3.    IBID


4.    Powell, p.8

5.    Bull, George. The Renaissance. { N.Y.: The John Day Co.
                   -----------------
  Inc., 1968 } p.7


6.    Hearder, H. A Short History of Italy. { N.Y.: The Press 
                 -------------------------
  Syndicate of the University of Cambridge, 1963 } p.16


7.    Durart, Will. The Reniassance. { N.Y.: Simon & Schuster,
                   -----------------
  1953 } p.67


8.    The Universal Illustrated Encyclopedia. 1978 ed. s.v. 
     ----------------------------------------
  "Goth"


9.    Durant, p.67-69


10.   IBID, p.69


11.   Hearder, p.69


12.   Bull, p.42


13.   Hale, p.14


14.   Durant, p.70-73


15.   Bull, p.42-43


16.   Hearder, p.71-72


17.   Bull, p.43


18.   Durant, p.72


19.   IBID


20.   Durant, p.74


21.   Bull, p.45


22.   IBID, p.43


23.   Durant, p.74


24.   Bull, p.44


25.   Durant, p.76


26.   Laven, Peter. Renaissance Italy. { N.Y.: Capricorn Books,
                   -------------------
  1966 } p.126


27.   Durant, p.76


28.   IBID, P.76-77


29.   Bull, p.47


30.   IBID, p.48-51


31.   IBID, p.51


32.   IBID, p.53


33.   Durant, p.77-78


34.   Burchardt, Joseph. The Civilization of the Renaissance
                        ------------------------------------
  in Italy. { N.Y.: Random Houc.,1934 } p.148
-----------


35.   Durant, p.81


36.   IBID, p.76


37.   IBID


38.   IBID, p.80


39.   Bull, p.47


40.   Durant, p.78


41.   Burchardt, p.158-160


42.   Bull, p.51


43.   Hale, p.163


44.   Durant, p.119


45.   IBID, p.120


46.   IBID


47.   IBID


48.   IBID, p.121


49.   IBID, p.123


50.   IBID, p.128




                          Art


        Had it not been for its explosion of great art, the Renai-

ssance would surely not seem as splendid as it does. Suddenly, large

sums of money were being paid out to buy objects of beauty; art to
                                        51
enrich life became the order of the day.


        During the Middle Ages, painting, sculpture, and architecture

were thought of as crafts. The powerful trade guilds who ordered 

works of art used standard pattern books for guidance, and gave 

strict instructions to the craftsmen they employed. Most earned 

their liaing decorating churches, which ment working on biblical 

scenes and episodes from the lives of the saints. The conservationims

of the church had prevented them from experimenting; anything new was

likely to be rbanded heresy Gradually, however, the humansts taught 

a more sensual sense of beauty; a frank admiration for the human body

-male or female, preferably nude- permeated the education classes.
                                                                52,53,54
The humanists introduced their pagan motives into Christian art.


                       Architecture


        Before the Renaissance, the architecture of Italy had been

influenced by Gothic, Romanesque, Greek, and Byzantine styles. Now

the humanists turned architectural vision to the ruin of Rome. To

build again in the classic style of Ancient Rome became the dream and

passion of men like Brunelleschi, Alberti, Michelozzo, Michaelangelo,  
            55
and Raphael.   

        The new churches and houses of the Renaissance were molded

largely on the buildings of Ancient Rome.  They had rounded arches

and broad windows which made their interiors light.  The decorations
                                          56
were also copied from classical buildings.  

        The Florentine architect Brunelleschi had traveled between 

Rome and Florence for about 12 years, examining classical architecture,

studying mathematics, and making clocks in his spare time to earn 

some money.  He spent hours crawling over the roofs of Roman buildings,

and even removed the tiles to find out more about the techniques the 
            57            
Romans used.


        Brunelleschi used what he had learned about Roman building 

methods in his design for the great dome of Santa Maria del Fiore

cathedral in Florence. The builders had come to a halt, since no one

knew how to build a dome on the vast scale that was needed. He pur-

suaded the people of Florence to use his design. The dome was 82 
                                                     58,59
meters high - the largest dome anyone had ever built. 


        The new homes in Florence were designed to be delightful 

places to live in. In 1490 Lorenzo de' Medici turned one of his coun-

try houses into a villa with ideas from a Greek temple. Gardens for

the new villa were laid out according to classical styles. Flower 

beds and paths were arranged to form regular patterns which were based

on squares and circles. The gardens were decorated with fountains and
                                       60
statues following the classical styles. 


                        Painting


        Before the Renaissance, painting in Italy was mostly influ-

enced by the Byzantine style from the eastern Mediterranean. Religion 

was the cheif theme. Often tall, stern-faced saints and angels were 

shown against flat gold backgrounds. there was little feeling of dis-

tance between the figures, and it didn't seem to matter if they were 

all the wrong size in relation to another.


        Around 1300 a painter called Giotto broke away from this style.

He tried to paint more realistically, and with human expressions. He

tried to make his pictures look solid and to set them against real-

looking backgrounds. 


        At the beginning of the 15th century artists began to com-

bine Giotto's ideas with those of classical times. The Ancient Romans

thought that proportion was very important, and the Renaissance

artists began to work out rules for their paintings. Objects and 

figures were based on the most perfect proportions. The head, for

instance, was one-seventh the length of the body.


        Artists were particularly intersted in the problem of per-

spective, which meant making the objects in the background of a pic-

ture seem the right size and shape compared with the objects in the

front. Brunelleschi noticed that the parallel lines of green and white

marble on the walls of the baptistry in Florence seemed to closer

together the farther away from him they were. Using his observations

artists worked out rules for showing perspective in their pictures.


        Masaccio was one of the first artists to follow Brunelleschi's

theories. He also managed to make his pictures very solid, by noticing

how light fell on objects and carefully painting in the shadows.

Masaccio died in 1428 but his ideas were used by other artists in 

Florence.


        Masaccio's paintings are mostly of religous subjects, but

the painters who followed him often illustrated classical stories or

painted portraits of rich people.Religous subjects remained common,

although sometimes when an artist like Raphael painted a portrait of

the Virgin Mary, it was really a portrait of his own mistress. 


        The "Mona Lisa", by Leonardo da Vinci is probably the most

famous of all paintings. Leonardo finished very few paintings since 

he was often busy working as an engineer and inventor. Some of his 

paintings have not lasted well because he experimented with different

kinds of paint. He used tempra instead of fresco for a vast wall

painting of the Last Supper, and even in his own lifetime paint was

flaking off the wall. Leonardo da Vinci was one of the most brilliant

men who has ever lived. He was both an artist and a scientist. At 

the time art and science were not thought of as two subjects, but as

one. Both depended on an accurate observation and close measurement

of the world. Leonardo had the imagination of a great artist, and a

scientists knowledge of how things work. He became a brilliant 

inventor. He designed a war machine on wheels, which was protected

by armor like a tank.He drew scetches of machines with which he bel-

ieved men could fly. He invented the idea of a parachute,and of 

explosive shells fired by a cannon. It was centuries before other
                                                            
scientists had these ideas and put them into practice. After Leonardos

death many of his ideas remained in his notebooks, unpublished and

unknown. But one invention which Leonerdo did put to work was a new

design for a lock gate, to control the flow of water in rivers and

canals. This design is still in use today. This genius of the Renais-

was truly a man for all ages.


        Another Renaissance artist skilled at a number of activities

was Michelangelo. as well as being a great sculptor he was a good
architect, a poet,and one of the finest painters who ever lived. His

most famous work as a painter is the series of religious scenes on

the huse ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in Rome. This work was begun

in 1508, and shows episodes from the Book of Genesis, including the

Creation of Man. The area which Micelangelo had to decorate was over

900 square meters. The fresco technique, which was needed for the 

painting, was something in which he had little practice.  However he 

carried out the project almost singlehanded and nearly blinded himself

as a result, because he had to work much of the time on his back fac_

ing the ceiling. After more than four years of work the public was

to see a work of art so profound in ideas that it can be said never

to have been surpassed before or since.

        In Michaelangelo, we see the triumph of all that artists had

been striving for during the past century: Christian ideas expressed
 
in classical grandeur;difficult technical problems beautifully solved;

challenges met; status established and honor won.    


                        


                     


         




I@OÅ