

						Cherie Marinelli
						483 Alexander Way
						Milpitas, California 95035
						November 6, l986

CBI
Regional Center
6389 San Ignacio Aveenue
San Jose, California 95119

Gentlemen;

The following is a statement regarding the dispute with MHEAC:

Shawmut Bank contacted me in March, 1983 to inform me that they made a computer
error on my payment account, and asked me to send them copies of checks for my
last fifteen (15) months' payments so that they could correct their error. They
also told me to suspend payment until the problem was resolved. I promptly did
so and waited for their reply. When none was forthcoming, I wrote several times
to request a status report. I never received a direct response to my letters.

The first that I heard from Shawmut Bank was a letter, stating that my account
was now in default, and requesting that I make arrangements to pay the balance
immediately. I then contacted an attorney, who was attempting to resolve the
problem, when I began to receive calls from a collection agency. I promptly
referred the caller to my lawyer, per her instructions. 

I then began receiving correspondence from the Massachusetts Higher Education
Assistance Corporation (MHEAC), requesting immediate and full repayment of the
loan balance, which I also referred to my lawyer.

In the meantime, I had called a Mr. Beckwith at the Massachusetts Banking
Commission, who told me he would look into the problem and get back to me. When
he did contact me, he told me that, since I now reside in California, his office
has no power to assist me with my problem.

Since the debt had, in the meantime, now appeared on my credit report, I have
located another attorney and retained him to assist me in resolving my problem,
which originated as the Shawmut Bank's computer system problem. At no time had
I been in default of my payments. I did everything the bank asked of me to
assist them in correcting the problem with their computer system. I never
received any feedback on the status of the problem from the Shawmut Bank, in
spite of my having made multiple, written requests. Instead, Shawmut Bank
chose to default my loan to the MHEAC, which is now demanding complete and
immediate repayment.

Frustratedly,


Cherie Marinelli